folks happy Good Friday uh I'm here with
selectwoman Paula King we're going to do
a quick update on the Andover Community
Center uh as you can see behind me we
put in most of the fill if you remember
from the last time the building looked
like it was quite a bit out of the
ground now you can kind of see what the
final Contours are going to be although
there's still a bunch of fill that needs
to go in off on the left hand side so
that we can have a continuous patio
between the two buildings we're now
standing roughly in the middle of the
Turning Circle so traffic is going to
come in and they're going to move you
know around in a counterclockwise
Direction and be able to pull up right
in front of the building uh there will
be handicapped a handicapped accessible
spot right next to the front door and
then be behind you there will also be
more handicapped accessible parking um
there will also be a walkway from the
front of the building that connects up
to the town hall so there'll be easy
movement between the two structures so
now we're going to go in the front door
and uh look at the progress that we've
made so
far
so this is the main entrance to the
building uh pretty soon there'll be a
couple of columns here so there'll be a
covered entrance so you can get into the
building nice and dry and you'll be able
to the senior Transportation vehicle
will be able to drive up and park uh
right in front of the
building
so this is the entrance vestibule into
the
building uh there'll be a second set of
doors
here and this is into the main entrance
lobby of the building um at this point
the framing uh is complete and framing
inspection is done the electrical rough
in is completely done the uh fire alarm
system is completely wired the camera
systems are wired the plumbing is
complete and the insulation and drywall
is mostly complete in the building so
this is what you have uh this room right
here which is a little dark is the
kitchen
um and right there is the pass through
where food will be passed out um when
we're having
events and then right behind me this is
going to be the office for the person
that uh will function as the uh
Community Center directly you see
there's lots of natural light and they
can look behind and see whatever is
happening
outside um and then all the camera
systems will be led to here so they can
monitor um basically what's going on in
the
building over here you can see there's
two bathrooms uh they're both the same
size uh the first bathroom will be uh
just a toilet and sink and the second
bathroom will also have a
shower so and this will help us out um
if this building is used as the town's
emergency shelter the ability to have
showers on site um will be
critical and now we're moving on into
the main assembly SL meting room for the
building uh now that the drywall is on
you can see the vaulted ceiling it's a
nice open uh nice open
room um it's going to have lots of
natural light and it will be well
lit so it'll be a great assembly
space there are two doors leading out
from this
building uh this door right here will
lead to a sidewalk and it's the second
main exit out to the building uh so
you'll just walk directly out to the
sidewalk and then there's a second
entrance or exit over here this
exit will lead out to a patio area and
this patio area will be completed
between the town hall and the uh
Community Center so there's lots of
outdoor Gathering space
look forward
to
okay moving on there'll be a set of
double
doors right here um and that will open
up so this could be opened up if we need
extra space um for this building but
this space will be a multi-purpose room
um like a smaller it can work as an arts
and craft room it can work as uh pretty
much anything you
want so it's a nice functional space um
if you want to have a a couple of
couches in here and have a a space for
the seniors to hang out this would be
this would be part of
it and then this this room right here
is uh going to have a locked door and it
does not have any external windows so it
can be used as a space for a whole bunch
of purposes one will be this will
probably end up being the early voting
spot uh that the town has because it can
be locked and secured and it can also be
used as an examination room for
counseling or any other things needed
for Community or senior
services and then lastly this back room
right here is all for
storage so and it will accommodate
storage for the kitchen as well as have
a janitor sink and for storing tables
and chairs and then the equipment for
needed to keep the building
clean so that's basically it for the
upstairs of the building now we're going
to pause and go look at the downstairs
okay we're now standing outside the
lower level of the community
center uh there there'll be two walkways
um that connect the two doors and then
go out to the parking area at the fire
station um and if you look behind you
the community garden is right there and
this area right here the septic system
will will be the the remaining portion
of the septic system should be installed
within the next couple weeks um so now
we'll take a quick look inside there are
guys working in there right now so uh
we're going to be in and out pretty
quickly but you can see what the
facility looks
[Applause]
[Music]
like
okay so we're now in the main uh portion
of the
basement um this is a wide openen
multi-use space for community
events the hbac has all been installed
here it's been fully insulated and
they're finishing the drywall
down
this room will be the mechanical room
all the plumbing comes to here and the
main electrical panel is right there
right next to the main electrical panel
will be the transfer switch for the uh
backup generator and this is all the uh
it uh structured wiring and this will be
one fire alarm system is mounted for the
building these two rooms here will be
finished off as
bathrooms um as time and money
allows
and then this room right here is some
mechanical space and it will also be
some uh limited storage in the
building um
because this
building
uh you know because this building is
designed to be operated as a community
center the basement does not have a lot
of storage
because if it was designated as a
storage facility that would require a
greater fire separation between the
upstairs uh and the ground floor which
would would you know increase costs a
lot so we're going to keep this as
general meeting space Our intention is
to finish off the floor and have a fully
functional space uh for
Gatherings um and that's pretty much
what the community center to look like
so thanks for your attention and hope
you have a happy Good Friday